May Allah reward you with good and may Allah bless you. They are the right ones. May Allah grant you success in the truth. From Allah what we heard, and may Allah forgive us, you and all Muslims, Amen. He says, God bless you. Is it permissible for a woman to work and help her husband in spending on the children, knowing that she works in a place where there are no men, all of whom are children and women?
The fact that a woman works in a place where there are no men but is only for women and young children is fine, but if the man can spend and she stays in her house and takes care of her children, the first thing she goes to earn is if he does enough. Maids. But if there is a matter intended by that and a necessity and that the husband does not have enough, then it is permissible for her to do the work in which there is no prohibition in that she does not mix with men, but rather has contact with women and small children. yes.
He says the transfer of Shaykh al-Islam Ibn Taymiyyah. In Majmoo’ al-Fatawa in the third volume, the doctrine of Ahl al-Sunnah wal-Jama’ah is established. Prayer is behind every righteous and immoral person. He said, and some of the Companions, may God be pleased with them, prayed behind someone whose immorality they knew? Ibn Masoud, may God be pleased with him, also prayed behind Al-Walid Ibn Abi Muait, and he used to drink alcohol. He led them once in the morning, four rak'ahs. Uthman, may God be pleased with him, flogged him. He finished. Some students of knowledge say that Sheikh al-Islam made a mistake in this. And that is in his saying that they know his immorality. In it, an accusation against Al-Walid bin Abi Muait of being an immoral person. Please explain
It is in the same hadith, meaning it was mentioned in the hadith in Sahih Muslim. The hadith that Sheikh al-Islam referred to is Sahih Muslim. And this is known that the occurrence of such a thing is a defect in the man, but the prayer behind everyone who was a Muslim in everyone who was not an infidel, then the prayer behind him is valid. Because he prays behind the righteous and the immoral. Rather, he does not pray behind the infidel who has reached the point of disbelief, and this is the one whose prayer is not valid, so his imam is not valid. But if he is an infidel, his prayer is not valid, so his prayer is not valid
May Allah reward you well, he says, what should I do with my wife who has been taking money without my knowledge for 25 years
I say as long as I have known her for 25 years. I say this for a long time. I don't know what remains is a precursor like this or more than this, so be careful if you are truthful and that you did not wrong her, and if you are unjust to her in this and the accusation, then fear God Almighty in yourself, and if you are honest, treat her kindly and advise her. And don't make money with her until you offer her to take something from her. The important thing is that you strive for her safety and uprightness, and that nothing happens to her that harms her in this world and the hereafter, and do not help her if you know that something will happen from her, then you do not make her hand anything.
God bless you, says a female dentist from Russia. She works in a hospital and she is forced to treat men, and she has no hospitals for women. At work, there is no taboo with her. She mixes with men and works in this profession. Is the money she earns permissible?
If a woman treats men when they are in need of her, or vice versa, then this is acceptable when necessary and when needed. But being alone is the one that is not permissible, but rather they must have a third, either a man or a woman. As for him being alone and a man without a woman in a place when she is a non-mahram, this is what was mentioned in the hadith that Satan is the third of them
He says: May God be good to you. If a person performs ‘Umrah on behalf of an excused person, or performs Hajj on his behalf, does he receive the credit that he receives, as if he performs Hajj or considers it on his own behalf?
A person should perform Umrah on his own behalf, perform Hajj on his own behalf, and pray for others. And if he performs Hajj on behalf of someone else or performs Umrah on behalf of someone else, then the Hajj is for the one who performs Hajj on his behalf, and the one who performs Hajj or performs Umrah on his behalf has a reward. As the Messenger, may God’s prayers and peace be upon him, said to the woman who raised a boy to him and said, “Is this a pilgrimage?” He said yes and you will be rewarded. It is a reward for being his argument and he has a reward, even if it is small, then the reward is for him. There is no doubt that whoever treats others well with Hajj will be rewarded, but the amount of his reward is that he is like him, and God knows best.
He says what are the conditions for the Aqeeqah? Is there a specific age for it?
Like the udhiyah, the ‘aqeeqah and the udhiyah and the sacrificial offering are the same. Means trunk of lamb and the second of goats. This is the least. This minimum is a stump of sheep, a stump of goats with a stump of half a year, and a stump of a goat with a full year.
His Eminence Sheikh says I am a teacher in religious institutes and some of those who spend on them deal with usury. What is the ruling on what he took from the salary from the institute in exchange for my teaching there?
By God, if it is known that this spending is from usury and that all of it is usury, then the person is looking for a profession that does not contain this prohibition. But if it is not pure, but it may be usury and it is not usury, then this matter is easier. But the safety in that he enters is clear and that the sustenance he obtains is halal, meaning that there is nothing forbidden in it
A woman set out for Umrah while on her way to visit Madinah got her menses. Can she enter the mosque and say hello to the Prophet, may God bless him and grant him peace, because she will travel before the end of her period?
Firstly, mosques do not enter menstruating women, they do not enter them. As for what is related to visiting the grave, there is a difference of opinion about women visiting graves, and it is correct that they do not visit graves. But she prays and greets the Messenger, may God bless him and grant him peace. And her prayers and peace be upon him reach the angels, as the Messenger of God, may God’s prayers and peace be upon him, said: “God has traveling angels who inform me of my nation’s peace.” And he, peace and blessings be upon him, said: “Do not make your homes into graves, and do not take my grave as a place of worship. Pray for me, for your prayers reach me wherever you are.” These are two authentic hadiths that indicate that if a person prays and greets the Messenger of God, he prays in any place, the angels reach him. But it means that a woman entering the mosque while she is menstruating does not have the right to do so.
He says, “May God bless you,” a man in ihram touches a non-mahram woman during Tawaf unintentionally. Does this invalidate it?
Ablution does not break, but when a person roams around in crowds, he is careful not to touch or touch.
He says, may God protect you and grant you health and wellness, we are your children from the state of Tanzania. There has been a lot of separation and conflicts among us because of what is happening between the sheikhs of the Sunnis in the arena, so each of us has its own sheikh. What is your advice and guidance, may God protect you
My advice is that a person is keen on righteousness, safety, and distance from temptation, and that he does not preoccupy himself with gossip and talk, and what does so-and-so say about so-and-so when he says so-and-so. He does not concern himself with these matters. He works with knowledge and is upright in the command of God and does not waste his time in gossip, talking about people and looking for people's faults. He does not concern himself with this.
Their second question says that there will be demonstrations in our country to remove the current ruler. So how do you work?
You do not participate in it, do not participate in demonstrations. And you are not responsible for it.
This says I disagreed with one of the brothers. And I tried to reconcile what was between me and him, but my father now does not speak to me.
By God, if you are keen on harmony, concord, and the absence of a charge, and you do the reasons for that, you have done what you owe. And if something happened to you in itself because you did a specific action, meaning that it caused him to contract this contraction from you, then you asked for forgiveness and apologized to him for the thing that happened, and that you do not return to the same. The bottom line is that you allow what you can for harmony and reconciliation between you and your friend, and if the mistake is yours, apologize for the mistake and be careful to continue contacting him and contact him frequently in order for what is in himself to go away from you.
May God be good to you, he says, what is the ruling on one who bequeaths one of his organs and his body to another patient after his death?
A person has no right to dispose of his organs or recommend them. But his limbs remain, because breaking the bones of the dead is like breaking the bones of the living. A person does not donate his organs, he does not donate his organs. But his organs remain on the body that he died on. It remains, so it is not said that it is taken from its members. This is an obvious mistake for a person to recommend that his organs be taken after his death, because the Prophet, may God’s prayers and peace be upon him, came that breaking a dead body is like breaking it while he is alive.
God bless you, he says, my family took a boy from a young age who did not know his father or mother. Now he is six years old. What do we do, we fear if he reaches how his entry will be upon us
You are kind to him, take care of him, complete your kindness, and make for him a special place where he meets women. And if you are able after that, when they grow up, help him in marriage and complete your kindness to him and help him obtain something from you or something that you ask from someone else, meaning that he collects something that he needs from housing or other than that. He does not mix with women unless he was breastfed when he was young.