The Quran
Ruling on putting mushaf in one's pocket next to awrah
May God be good to you, bless you, and benefit Islam and the Muslims. Questioner says: what is the ruling on placing mushaf in the pocket of one's garment next to the awrah.
Brothers, the general rule is that the believer must honor the Qur’an. And it is forbidden for him to insult it. Anything that is insulting to the Qur’an is forbidden. Among the actions that all rational people consider as an insult, then this is absolutely forbidden in all cases. Like, Allaah forbid, he puts the Mushaf on the ground and puts his toes on the edge of the Mushaf, the toes of his feet. Some people put the Qur’an on the ground and then stretch their legs so that they almost sit on the Mushaf. Every sane person understands that this is an insult. Likewise, for example, if the Mushaf is set up in front of him in a desk drawer or so, then he extends his legs to the Mushaf, and if I say to him, “My brother, fear Allaah,” he says, “What is the evidence?” And when you came, you raised your feet in his face, and he said, “What are you doing, you have little shame?” Glory be to Allaah, when it comes to the book of Allaah [he says] "What is the proof?", but your face doesn't need evidence. Every sane person understands that it is an insult. As for the actions that people differ in, the reference goes back to the customs of the people. What your people used to consider as an insult to the Mushaf, it is not permissible for you to do it. This may vary from country to country. One of the virtues of our religion, brothers, is observing customs and keeping up with customs as long as it does not contradict Allaah's legislation. Some people think that righteousness requires fighting habit. Because habits, brothers, are linked to souls. Ibn Khaldun a well-known scholar says habit is a second nature. Habit becomes in the soul as if it were a nature, as if it were part of his nature, and there is no doubt about these brothers. Don't you see that the one who drives the car, if he rides in a car, behaves as if he is driving. If the car gets close to the signal, he might stretch his leg. Also, a person is accustomed, if he approaches his house, to take out the key. Sometimes you go to a person, if you approach the door, you take out the key. Habit is a second nature, so the link of the habit to the soul is strong. Therefore, one of the virtues of our religion is observing customs and keeping up with customs as long as it does not contradict the Sharia. Therefore, one of the principles of call to Islam and the principles of uprightness are to not contradict people's habits, as long as they are not contrary to the Sharia. Because if you violate the custom of people and it is not contrary to the legislation, they will hate righteousness through you. Many of the actions in terms of actions in the issue of the Mushaf are referred back to the custom. Because the legislation did not specify them, and the rule is that everything that was mentioned in the legislation in absolute sense and it's not restricted in the legislation or in the language, then it goes back to the custom. And putting the Mushaf in the side pocket if it was while sitting, then I see it and Allaah knows best as an insult because usually the pocket wraps around. But if it is in the state of standing, then it goes back to the custom of the people. Is this considered an insult or not? May Allaah help us and you to glorify Allaah’s religious signs and to honor the Qur’an.