Hajj and Umrah
Clarification on how to perform Umrah for a young child
May Allaah preserve you. The questioner says: We hope that you will explain to us something about how the boy performs Umrah and whether he should be directed to the Kaaba if he circumambulates it.
Umrah is valid for a boy, whether he is at the age of discernment or not. He must be stripped of his regular clothes as an adult. And he is excused from using the diaper if he is the one who uses the diaper. And there is no ransom to be paid. He wears an izaar and a robe. If he is at the age of discernment, then at the meeqat he is commanded to form the intention and is told, “We will perform ‘Umrah.” The intention means that he feels that he will perform Umrah. It is said to him at the appointed time: We will perform the Umrah and you are with us and you will perform the Umrah. And if he is not discerning, then his guardian intends for him. He intends to perform Umrah. If he arrives in Makkah, if the boy is not discerning or it is not crowded, and his father carries him, then tawaaf is sufficient for one of them. And the boy must make tawaaf independently, meaning that the father makes tawaaf himself, then carries his boy and makes his left to the direction of the Kaaba. He doesn't carry him however. He makes the boy's left to the direction of the Kaaba, either by carrying him over his shoulders, or he is carried so that the boy's left is to the direction of the Kaaba. And he makes tawaaf independently. Because the principle is that the two intentions do not meet in one heart. Here, the father intends to make tawaaf for the boy as well. As for the case of severe crowding, which causes severe hardship, for the father to make tawaaf twice, then he is excused from this, so if he carried him, it counts for both, Allaah willing, because the legislation does not bring difficulty or excessive hardship, but it is better to push him in a cart and not carry him. Brothers, if he pushes him in a cart, there is no problem, he puts him in a cart and pushes, no problem. But the problem is if he carries him in a crowded state, he will be excused from that, Allaah willing. One tawaaf is sufficient. And if the boy is discerning, then one tawaaf is sufficient for them, even if he carried him, because the boy is commanded with making the intention and he intends. If he carried him, then it is sufficient for the two. This is what appears to me in the matter, and Allaah knows best.