Women issues
Ruling on blood of a woman who miscarried and how should she perform Umrah in that state
May God heal you and heal you. The questioner says my wife miscarried in the fifth week. And now there is blood coming out of her that looks like menstrual blood, knowing that it falls at the time of her menstruation. What is the ruling on this blood, and how should she perform Umrah, knowing that it will be after three days?
As long as the miscarriage was less than 80 days and did not complete 80 days and the birth did not appear, then this is not postpartum bleeding. But this is the bad blood. If the blood coincides with the usual time of menstruation and the time of her menstruation is regular, then the origin that it is menstrual blood. So she holds off in these days of her menstruation from praying and fasting, until when she completes the days of her menstruation, she performs Ghusl. At the end of the question, she asked about the Umrah, how is it done during it? She is menstruating. If she wants to go to Makkah, she enters ihram from the meeqaat obligatory. You take a bath for Ihram and you are muhrim from the Miqat. Then, when she reaches Makkah, she does not perform any rights of Umrah until she is purified. Then she takes a bath and goes and performs her Umrah. And it is better for her to stipulate condition when entering ihram, so she says, “Labbaik Umrah. And if something stops me, then I'm free from ihram wherever I'm prevented.” Because if her menstruation continues, and the time for travel has come, she can exits the state of ihram by way of her condition. And nothing's on her and she can travel. This is what a menstruating woman does if she wants to go to Umrah. Pay attention, you must enter ihram from the meeqaat that is not optional. It is a must. It is better for her to stipulate that if she is prevented, then she removes ihram from where she is prevented. Then she goes to the hotel in Makkah and stays in the hotel or the house without performing any rights of Umrah until she becomes pure. Then, when she becomes pure, she takes a bath at the hotel or at her home. And it doesn't need to go to meeqat, no. From the hotel directly to the Sacred Mosque. And she performs her Umrah until she is done.