May Allaah be good to you, bless you, and benefit Islam and Muslims. May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: If you are in a country that does not depend on the moon sighting, but rather depends on the astronomical calculation, and if the news of the moon sighting reaches them, they reject it if the calculation does not agree, then what should we do?
First, we must take the apparent meaning, so if the country depends on sighting, and they go out and see, and the officials in the country announce that the crescent has not been seen, then the people of the country take this. Shaban completes 30 days. What they did not say and they will not say, but if they said we saw the crescent, but it violates the calculation, so we do not take it. Here we take the view that they did not take, but this is what it is. But I say it as a scientific hypothesis. But if the country does not depend on the moon sighting in the first place, but rather depends on the astronomical calculation, and announces, perhaps a month or two in advance, that Ramadan is on such-and-such day. If it agrees with a legislation, even if it was not intended for its perpetrators, then it is considered to preserve the Muslims’ fast in general and the general principles of the Sharia. For example, it is announced that Ramadan is on so-and-so day through calculation and it agreed with people's of that country sighting of the crescent on that day. So they fasted on that day because of sighting. Here we say, O people of this country, fast, because this agreed with a legaslative aspect, which is the sighting in a Muslim country. Or it coincides with the completion of Sha’ban 30 days, then they fast, even if this is according to astronomical calculations. But if it does not agree with a legislation, then they look to the nearest country to them, and they rely on what that country says. If one of them fears trial or harm, then he fasts or breaks his fast secretly, yes.
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: What is the ruling on placing the hands on the chest and bowing when greeting the Messenger of Allaah, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him?
Our Prophet, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him, is obligatory for a Muslim to have good manners with him, both alive and dead. He, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him, was blessed alive and dead, and nothing of his honor changed with his death, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him. Allaah decreed death for him like all other human beings. But his honor and grace remain. He is dead, may Allaah bless him and grant him peace, buried in his grave. And whoever comes to greet him must be display good manners with him May Allaah bless him and grant him peace. And the greatest etiquette is not to commit shirk while greeting the Prophet, may Allaah bless him and grant him peace. He does not say, O Messenger of Allaah, grant me wealth, O Messenger of Allaah, relieve my anxiety. Because if the Prophet, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him, heard this while he was alive, he would have been very angry, because it is associating partners with Allaah Almighty. One of the great etiquettes is that the servant avoids innovations while greeting the Prophet, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him. And it is from good manners to avoid being in the form like the standing in prayer, because this standing is for Allaah and not for any of Allaah’s creation. As if he puts the right hand on the left and lowers his head to the ground while greeting the Prophet, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him, at his grave, bowing. All of this must be avoided. But a person stands while greeting the Prophet, may Allaah bless him and grant him peace, with manners. He does not appear here and there, nor does he shout and call, but he behaves with the Messenger of Allaah, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him, while he is dead, as if he were meeting him while he was alive. It is bad manners that we see these days taking pictures at the grave, either to take pictures of the grave, or for a person to take pictures of himself at the grave. He comes with his back to the grave, then brings a camera and takes pictures with the grave. This is very bad manners with the Messenger of Allaah, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him.
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says which is better: praying in the first row that has been cut off or praying in the third row that has been connected.
Perhaps the questioner wants to be in this mosque now. Is it better to pray in the row next to the imam? Because now there is a row next to the imam on his right, or we pray in the rows behind. It is better to pray in the rows behind, because standing next to the imam without need is contrary to the Sunnah. He does not stand alongside the imam unless the one who is praying behind the imam does not find space behind the imam. As for standing alongside the imam with a place behind, this is contrary to the Sunnah of the Messenger of Allaah, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him. And also because the one who stands in this row it is feared that he may step ahead of the imam. And whoever precedes the imam in prayer, even by a step, his prayer is invalidated according to the majority. It is the most correct of the sayings of the scholars. So praying in the back rows is better than the row next to the imam, yes
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says that in some western countries they pray Isha before the time by the Fiqh Council, so is it permissible for us to pray with them?
Degrees are not what's considered. Rather, what's considered is the legal signs. The legal sign of Isha prayer is the setting of the red twilight. It is not permissible for Muslims to pray Isha while they see the red twilight. The sign of the Maghrib prayer is sunset. When the sun sets, the time for Maghrib prayer begins. The point is not in degrees that contradict these legal signs. And in my theoretical study, It appeared to me that the degree in terms of pure sight in Europe is the twelfth degree. Some scholars see the fifteenth degree. The Fiqh Academy considers the seventeenth or eighteenth degree. But the legislative signs take presedence over all this talk. If the legal sign does not appear, then the Muslims in the country must agree on a time whether they take the degree decided by the Fiqh Council, or the old degree in Europe, which has many in the past, which is the fourteenth, or the twelfth degree, provided that this does not contradict the legal sign. And it does not lead to fitnah. Rather, they are keen to agree that they meet and agree on a time. It is not permissible, brothers, it is not permissible to violate the legal signs in favor of impressive sayings. And the strange fatwas that I heard these days are that a mufti issues fatwas that the countries in which the day is long in Ramadan but has night and day, but the day is long. He said they fast with the number of hours of fasting in Mecca. So he permitted them to break the fast, Allaah forbid, while they see the sun. This is undoubtedly a false statement. It is not permissible to take it or consider it, so what counts is the legal signs, in fasting from the true dawn until sunset. As long as the signs are visible, even if the day is long, then it is obligatory to sound and fine the sheep, because time rotates, and the fast may have been 3 hours. Rather, I was informed that in some regions, at times, fasting is 1/2 hour. So do we tell them to take also from the night as we told them to leave some of the day? There is no doubt that these sayings are invalid, and the legal sign is what counts. Perhaps we suffice with this. I ask Allaah Almighty to accept from me and from you and to make us all among His righteous servants, and Allaah knows best, and may Allaah’s blessings and peace be upon our Prophet