May Allaah be good to you, bless you, and benefit you from Islam and the Muslims. More than one question says: "May Allaah protect you. What is the correct opinion on accepting witness of a woman in moon sighting of Ramadan
If a woman sees the crescent, then she considers seeing the crescent for herself, because she has seen the crescent. And there is a well-known difference of opinions regarding the issue of who saw the crescent and the sighting was not accepted. As for accepting the sighting from a woman for others, the disagreement is strong. What is mentioned in the Sunnah is the sighting of a man. Therefore, I refrain from speaking on the issue of obligating Muslims to fast based on sighting of a woman. Yes.
May Allaah protect you, there are many questions, and they also ask for more clarification about the differentiation or criteria for differentiating between the hair which is considered a sign of puberty and other than that.
Of course, this is something that is realized by creation. Pubic area has hair around it, even with a small child. But this hair that grows from the beginning is short and soft. This is not a sign of puberty. Rather, the sign of puberty is the strong, coarse hair that is somewhat coarse. This is the hair that is a sign of puberty, and I cannot explain more than this, yes.
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: Does he feed on behalf of the old sick person every day, or collect 30 poor people in one day?
It is permissible to feed for every day. It is permissible to feed for the whole month at the end of the month. As did Anas, may Allaah be pleased with him. As for feeding for the whole month at the beginning of the month, it is a matter of disagreement among the scholars. And I think that it is permissible as long as the month has entered and the reason has taken place. And what seems to be the most correct opinion is that it is permissible, even if the days have not yet come, because the reason has taken place. yes
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: We are at war with the Kharijites. Is it permissible for us to break our fast in this war at all, or only when we meet the enemy?
Your war with the Kharijites is a war in the country. It is, as they say today, in their military terms, a guerrilla war, not a war of soldiers, for it is not permissible to break the fast while waiting and anticipating. Rather, breaking the fast is permissible in the event of engaging with the enemy and actively fighting them. yes
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says, “I left my country and intended to perform ‘Umrah in Sha’ban, and I sat in Makkah for two days, then I came to Madinah. So is it prescribed for me to perform ‘Umrah again?”
Yeah. As long as you have come to Medina to visit the mosque of the Prophet, may Allaah bless him and grant him peace. You may return to Makkah to perform Umrah on your behalf or on behalf of someone else for whom you may perform Umrah. There is nothing wrong with that, yes.
May Allaah bless you, the questioner says, is it permissible to donate a kidney?
Contemporary scholars agreed that organs may not be sold at all. It is forbidden to take payment for an organ from the organss. Because a person does not own his body for him to take compensation for it. As for organ donation, there are two types of organs: a type without which life cannot be, or without which life is incomplete. Like the heart, for example. What person can live without a heart? Like the eye, for example. A person lives with one eye, but life is not complete with one eye. These organs may not be donated. The second type is organs that a person can live if he donates them. Like the kidneys. If a person donates a kidney he can live with the other kidney. Like the liver, if a person donates a part of it, he can live and even grow it again. Here, the scholars differed regarding the ruling on organ donation, so a group of contemporary scholars held a position that it is permissible to donate organs because this is a form of charity and it saves lives. And Allaah Almighty commanded justice and goodness. They said our bodies yes they do not belong to us. But Allaah, who created our bodies, commanded us to do good. This is a favor. It saves from destruction. It is a good thing and there is no objection to it. Some people of knowledge, such as Imam Al-Albani, may Allaah have mercy on him, went to prohibit organ donation. Some scholars, such as our sheikh, Sheikh Ibn Baz, may Allaah have mercy on him, remained silent about it. Our sheikh has a fatwa forbidding it, and he has a fatwa for refraining from the issue. And what is apparent to me, and Allaah knows best, is the permissibility of organ donation. Because it is good. There is nothing legally prohibiting from it. Because it is well indicated by the general texts. There is nothing legally preventing it. This is the clarification of the organs. This is in regards to donation from a living person. As for donating after death, those who see the permissibility say that it is permissible to donate every useful organ. This means that a person may write a will or sign a donation document while he is alive, that if he dies, he will donate his organs. If he dies immediately after his death, the heart is taken, and the liver is taken. The cornea of the eye is taken and the good kidneys are taken. Those who see it as permissible say that it is permissible to donate every useful organ here. And those who do not see the permissibility in the first place say that this donation is not permissible. Because it entails splitting the body of the dead. And breaking the bone of the dead is like breaking it alive. They said it is forbidden. And those who see the permissibility say that splitting the body while it is alive is permissible for the interest and more so when he is dead. In any case, and I ask Allaah to forgive me, I think that the most correct view is that it is permissible to donate organs that do not harm during life, I mean, donating them during life. And donating all beneficial organs after death is not harmful. Yeah. Brothers, always if I give fatwa, I give fatwa with my knowledge. I do not oblige anyone to take my fatwa. I do not prevent from other statements made by scholars. But I display the knowledge. Whoever accepts the fatwa and is convinced of it, that is it, and whoever does not take it, there is no harm. Because some of them are really fools. If they hear from me or someone else who issues a fatwa that contradicts a fatwa of a great scholar and the issue is controversial, they say how does he contradict so-and-so? This is not based on knowledge. Jurisprudence is based on correct evidence and proper consideration. A person issues fatwas based on his knowledge. As for you, O listener, it is obligatory for you to take what is correct, so whatever appears to you to be correct, it is obligatory for you to adhere, yes.
May Allaah be good to you. The questioner says he has tests these days, and he takes thyroid medicine because he does not have a thyroid gland. He says, may Allaah protect you, and if he does not drink it, his head hurts very much, and he cannot test. So what does he do?
If you are able to organize the medicine so that you take it at dawn, before the call to prayer, even if it is in a specific quantity, by referring to the doctor, then you must do that. As for just testing and some of them say fasting makes the mind weak or lazy. This is the opposite of scientific research. Scientific research has proven that fasting makes the mind sharp. However, the tests are not a reason for breaking the fast. And if the test conflicted with fasting, we would have said leave the study and fast, although it does not conflict. But Satan deceives people. And some muftis, may Allaah guide us and them, they tend to what pleases people. This means that some people manage to present as truth what would be a popular opinion with the people. This one, everything is forbidden with him. But if they see you as flexible, it means that you are determined according to people's fluctuations. You will be popular with them. And Iblis is keen. Love of popularity is a disaster. And the love of people returning to man is a disaster. Man loves this. If he does not strive against himself by Allaah, he will neglect his religion even if he is a mufti. Some of the muftis, may Allaah guided us and them, I mean, tend to give fatwas to people as they like. And that they say to people if you are in a country where the day is long, fast with the number of hours in Mecca and break your fast even if it is noon. Mashallah. This sheikh. Or they say the students who are testing break their fast and make up. These fatwas are not based on a valid legal basis. We ask Allaah to help the muftis to do their duty, to fear Allaah, and to observe Allaah. We are all going to die. And we will all meet Allaah. And Allaah will hold us accountable, and there is not one of you who will not be spoken to by his Lord, without an interpreter between him and Him. He looks to his right and sees nothing but what he has put forth. And he looks to the left and he does not see anything except what he has put forth. And he looks in front of him and sees nothing but the Fire. We ask Allaah to protect us and you.
May Allaah reward you. A sister asks, she says that she married a man who used to harm her and slander her with adultery, Allaah forbid, and he does not spend on her, so she asked him for divorce, so he divorced her and started coming to her and threatening her. She says he also consumes drugs and alcohol. And she doesn't have a son to protect her from him. She asks is it permissible for her to complain to the authorities in the non-Muslim country, and she also asks about custody of her daughter if she marries someone else.
This is a call from one party. We do not judge in the specific case because we do not know the true situation. But in terms of the legal ruling in general. If an aggressor assaulted a Muslim in the land of disbelief and he wants his honor, or he wants his life, or he wants his money. He has the right to raise it to the authorities, and to complain about it to the police in that country without embarrassment. As for custory, if she marries other man (not her husband), then the custory goes to her mother if she has a mother. And if not, then it goes to her father's mother if he has a mother. As for child's father, if the matter as this woman said, then he is not eligible for custody at all. As long as he has these qualities, if the woman is true in what she says.