May Allaah bless you and bless you and benefit you from Islam and Muslims. May Allaah bless you, he says, he drank some water, thinking that dawn had not come. If he hears the iqama for prayer, what should he do?
If he sees the dawn, it is obligatory for the Muslim who is fasting to refrain from eating and drinking, unless the drinking vessel is in his hand, in which case it is permissible for him to drink. A license from Allaah Almighty. And the sign of dawn is the call to prayer at the time. If the muezzin calls the call to prayer at the time known in the country, then as soon as the call to prayer is given, the Muslim must refrain from eating and drinking. The mere fact that the muezzin says Allaahu Akbar, the Muslim must refrain from eating and drinking, unless he has a container of water in his hand. The origin is that the night remains. It is permissible for a person to eat and drink until he knows that dawn has broken. If in doubt, the origin the night remains. Therefore, Ibn Abbas used to say, may Allaah be pleased with them both, eat and drink as long as in doubt. I mean, I am in the car going to Makkah, and I do not know the time of dawn in the area where I am in the desert. I may eat and I may drink. Because the basic principle is that the night remains .What is not permissible, my brothers, is what some of the brothers do inside Al-Madinah and say, “By Allaah, I was in doubt if it was dawn, so I eat and drink even if the muezzin called. If the muezzin called, then you know that dawn had broken.” Well, this brother of ours woke up and went to the refrigerator and drank water thinking that the muazzin did not call for prayer. ٍSo when he drank, the muezzin established the prayer. What is the ruling on fasting? The answer is that if he was not negligent and there was no sign of dawn, then his fast is valid. Because the principle is that the night remains. And his action was done in error. And Allaah Almighty, in the supplication of the believers, said, “Glory be to our Lord, do not blame us if we forget or err.” The Most Gracious, Glory be to Him, said, I have done. But if he was negligent, they had an alarm but he was negligent and indulgent, then he must make up that day, yes
May Allah reward you, the questioner says. How do I pray the regular sunnah of Isha prayer if the time is short between prayer and Tarawih prayer?
When you have finished saying the adhkaar, stand up and pray two light rak’ahs of the Sunnah of ‘Isha’, and recite the supplications one by one. For example, you say in glorification, Glory be to Allaah ten times, and praise be to Allaah ten times, and Allaah is the greatest ten, and this is one of the ways mentioned in the Sunnah. Then you pray the two light rak’ahs before Tarawih. The Prophet, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him, used to start his standing with two light rak’ahs. Some of the people of knowledge have said this is for whoever wakes up from sleep so that he is energized for the night prayer. But he prays the sunnah of Isha because the sunnah of Isha is prescribed in Ramadan and in other than Ramadan throughout the year. He prays it lightly and prays with the imam. yes
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: Do I have the right to reserve a place in the front rows, then return to the class, then after the class go back to the lesson directly, then and after the lesson, go back to my place?
It is known that the mosque is the house of Allaah and that it is a waqf for worshipers for all Muslims. Whoever advances to a place and he is entitled to it, then he has more right to it and has priority over it. And we said  "while he is entitled to it", what doesn't enter under that statement, for example, if a woman advances to the first row, she is not entitled to that place. It is for the one who came first. It is not permissible for anyone to abstract the place from the rest of the Muslims. It is not permissible for a person to stay in his house and send a prayer rug to be placed in the first row, and to eat and drink, and then come at the time of the call to prayer and walk through the people to the first row, praying on his prayer rug. This is injustice and aggression. In fact, he did not come first. Therefore, some scholars say the precedence is for bodies, not for prayer rugs. Bodies take precedence, not prayer rugs. And the Sheikh of Islam Ibn Taymiyyah, may Allaah have mercy on him, mentioned that removing these rugs is from prohibiting of evil. And praiseworthy command is what does not result in fitan and loud voices in the mosque. But whoever goes to a place and sits there, then gets up from it for a matter related to prayer or for a matter close, even if it is not related to prayer. He deserves his place. And he may place a prayer rug. And he may request to leave whoever sat in his place. Whoever gets up from his seat to return to it is more entitled to it. An example of this: A Muslim came to the first row after he had prayed Maghrib, for example, he came to the first row and sat before the call to prayer, and his ablution was invalidated. So he went out to perform ablution and came back. He went out for something related to prayer. This is for him to put down a prayer rug. And if he comes and finds someone in his place, he has to say, O my brother, this is my place, stand up. He deserves it. Or he went out, even if it was not a matter related to prayer, but something close. As if he went out to give his wife something. For example, a wife who broke her fast with him in the mosque, then she wanted to go home because of something that happened to her and the key was with him, so she called him, so he got up from his place to go out to her to give her the key. This is something that is not related to prayer, but it is a matter close to it, so he is more deserving of his spot. And Allaah knows. If a Muslim were to perform the Friday prayer early, he would sit in the first row before dawn, because he wants the first row. Then, after the sun had risen, he went out to do the Friday ablution, whether in his home or in the nearby places of ablution. He has a right to lay a prayer rug. Because he got up from his seat for something related to prayer, and he will return to it. He deserves it. But if his standing is for a matter not related to prayer, and it is prolonged, such as a lesson, for example, then he has no right to the place, and he should not put a carpet in its place. Rather, he should seek the reward and this is a matter of prioritising between good deeds. I hope that Allaah will write for him from His favor the reward for attending the lesson. And the reward for his prayer in the first row due to his intention, even though he was prevented from it by legislative reason. Yes
May Allaah reward you, the questioner says: You said, may Allaah preserve you, that it is not permissible to fast today, the 30th of Sha’ban, as the 1st of Ramadan. While in reality, that day was from Ramadan and the moon sighting was after the 29th of Sha'baan. Is it obligatory on people to make up that day?
Yes, if it was thought Shaban was 30 days and after we fasted for 28 days, we witnessed the crescent of Shawwal. This happened to us in our country years ago. If we see the crescent of Shawwal, we must break our fast. Although we have fasted 28 days. Because it is forbidden for us to fast on the day of Eid. Then we need to make up a day. Because the month is not less than 29 days, yes.
May Allaah reward you, says the questioner. One of them assigned me to return a piece of footage that he took from Makkah two years ago. He took it during his stay in Makkah and he was performing Umrah. Then one of his companions needed some money, so he gave him from this footage, and after the period ended, he transferred the amount to his country. Then, now he wants to return it to the safety deposit box in the Great Mosque of Mecca. He says the exchange rate has increased, so should he return its amount? Or return it at the price of today?
I don't know what kind of lost item it is. And the lost item of Mecca is never owned, and it is not permissible to capture it except for identifier. And this is what our brother did, he made a mistake. He must ask Allaah for forgiveness for what he did. And he must return it. If it was money in Saudi riyals, for example. It is returned by SAR. I mean, if he picked up an amount of money in Saudi riyals, and the price of his country's currency was stronger than the price of the Saudi riyal. Currencies fluctuate. We realize that the Sudanese pound is at 5 riyals. Today, the people of Sudan tell you about its value. The riyal is 9 riyals for 9 pounds, so the Saudi riyal must be returned, not the currency. He returns it in Saudi riyals. He also took it and delivered it to the trusts, and what I see and ask Allaah to forgive me out of precaution for his brother that with his return, he gives the same in charity with the intention of its owner. Why? Because when he took it, he withheld it from its owner for a year or two. Perhaps its owner came back asking about it and did not find it and despaired and left it. As a matter of precaution to discharge the obligation, I see that my brother should return it as he did and hand it over to the officials in the Sacred Mosque for the lost items, and more than that, give the same amount in charity with the intention of its owner. By this he discharged his obligation, Allaah Almighty willing. yes
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: If his name appears as a person in the lottery for Hajj, then he wants to sell that for a double amount, will that suffice him? Or may he?
If he did not perform the obligatory Hajj, then it is not permissible for him to offer someone else over himself, neither with compensation nor without compensation, as long as his name has come up and he is able to perform the Hajj, then he must perform the Hajj. He does not offer it to anyone not even his father. For there is no preferring others over oneself when it comes to personal obligatory duty. But if he had performed Hajj or had a problem that prevented him from performing Hajj, such as illness, poverty, or something else. Is it permissible for him to sell his name to someone else? Answer: If there is a lie in that, then it is not permissible. And if this violates the regulations, whether in his country or in the country issuing the visa, which is Saudi Arabia. This is not permissible. As for me, I do not know the situation if there was no lying, rather he relinquishes his name to the name of this one and does not violate these regulations, so there is nothing wrong with him taking compensation for this.
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: My mother is 93 years old, and she loses intellect sometimes and she fasts some days and breaks the fast on others. Is it obligatory upon her to make up missed days?
I don't know what my brother meant by losing intellect. If what is meant is that she loses intellect, that she passes out, then we will explain this issue tomorrow, Allaah willing, in the lesson. And if what is meant is that her mind goes and comes back, then one day she will be sane and understanding. And one day her mind goes away and she says to her son, “Oh, my father,” and she asks about old things and the like. This is on the day when she is sane and aware, so she fasts. And on the day that her mind goes, she is not required to perform or make up. Because the mind is a condition for obligation. But if she is not in this state, i.e. some days she is in her mind and comprehension, and in other days when she is not in her right mind. If she is not like this, but most of the time she is not in her right mind, and sometimes she comes back to her right mind. For example, when her daughter enters, she says "Oh my mother, oh my mother", or if son enters, she says, "Oh my father", or she said: ‘Where are the sheep? Did you water the sheep?" This was 50 years ago. They don’t have sheep today. She regained from her intellect what was 50 years ago. And sometimes she enters and says “Muhammad, how are you?" She knows and recognises her son, but this is little. She is not held accountable in this case. She is not commanded to fast, pray, perform or make them up. But if we see her with her mind, we urge her to pray, perhaps she will pray two rak'ahs in the state of her mind, which will benefit her when meeting Allaah Almighty. But the obligation has been waived.