May Allaah be good to you, bless you, and benefit Islam and Muslims. The questioner says, may Allaah protect you. Is it better to recite the Qur’an a lot in this month, or to limit it to one or two recitations in recitation, reflection and contemplation? The state of the predecessors indicates that many letters are better than the interpreted recitation that is with contemplation, but what appears, and Allaah knows best, is that the matter differs according to different people, so the servant who is fit for his heart looks. And what is more beneficial to the heart is better. And if it is possible to combine, such as making you an interpreted and deliberate conclusion from the beginning of the month to the end of the month, and making another reading for you in which you increase the letters, then this is good and perfect. For example, if you made the time between noon and afternoon, which makes it easy for you to read a contemplative explanation until the end of the month. And I made for you at the beginning of the day or at the end or at night a recitation in which there are many letters, so this would be good and blessed
May Allaah benefit you. The questioner says: We came to perform Umrah and we will stay for a month. Is it permissible for us to take the travel license and shorten the prayers? This is a matter of dispute among scholars. What is apparent to me is that you are travelers and you can shorten your prayer if you do not pray with the imam. As for the one who prays with the imam, he must complete it. And you can break your fast. This is more correct with me, and Allaah knows best
May Allaah be good to you. The questioner says: What does the congregation say when they hear imam in the Witr qunoot glorifying Allaah and praising Him? They should remain silent. They should not say, O Allaah, nor Glory be to You. And the imam's praise is also praise for the followers. If the congregation hears the imam praising Allaah, they listen to the praise of Allaah Almighty. And if there was something to be said, it would have been transmitted to us at the time of the Messenger of Allaah, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him, or at the time of the Companions, may Allaah be pleased with them. And if the imam makes supplication, then the followers say "Ameen".
May Allaah reward you, a sister who asks says she was afflicted with a disease in her womb that caused him to have a disturbance in bleeding at times other than the usual time of her menses, and the doctor prescribed her medicine. What is its ruling? What is its effect on fasting? Firstly, taking birth control pills that prevent menstruation should not be taken lightly by believing women. These pills have harmful effects and lead to serious hormonal disorders. It may cause cancer and cause hair to appear in places where hair does not usually appear in women, and other damages. If a woman needs to take it, especially for the first time, then she should refer to the specialist doctor and conduct the necessary examinations. There is no doubt that continuing to take it harms women. It is not permissible for a Muslim to do what harms him. One of the perfections of our religion is that it forbids a person to do what harms him or others, as the Prophet, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him, said: “There is neither harm nor reciprocation.” She should not always take these pills according to people’s advice, but rather refer to the doctor who conducts examinations and assesses the benefits and harms from a medical point of view, and does what the skilled doctor recommends. As for what this sister mentioned, that when she takes the pills, she finds drops of blood and she does not know whether it is menstruation or not. So we say that if her menstruation was at a known time of the month, then what happened at the time of menstruation is menstruation, even if she was taking pills, as long as it is at the time of her menstruation, then it is menstruation, even if it is a few drops. And if it was at a time other than her usual menstruation and it did not have the known characteristics of menstruation, then it is not menstruation. But if it has the characteristics of menstruation known, then it is menstruation. But if her cycle is disturbed and her menstruation does not have a specific time in the month, then she considers the characteristics. If its characteristics are the characteristics of menstruation, then it is menstruation. And if there are not characteristics of menstruation, then it is the corrupt blood, fatigue and exhaustion. It doesn't prevent her from anything.
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: When is it permissible for us to break the fast if we want to travel during the day in Ramadan? Scholars differed regarding a Muslim who fasts at the beginning of the day and then travels during it. Does he break the fast? What appears to be the more correct opinion is that he may break the fast as long as he traveled during the day. And when does he start to break his fast? The majority of scholars, and it is more cautious, that he begins to break his fast if he leaves the urban areas of the city, and it is more cautious. Because a person does not know what will happen to him, he may break his fast, then he will stop traveling and miss the fast of that day. Some of the scholars are of the view that he breaks his fast even at home. It appears to be more correct that it is permissible for him to do so as long as he knows that he will leave the city during the day. But if he knows that he will not leave the urban areas of the city except at night, then it is not permissible for him to break his fast in his house. Because he will not travel during the day. I mean, brothers, a person at noon time wanted to travel to Makkah and his car was parked at the door. It is most likely that he will leave Medina much before sunset. It is permissible for him to break his fast while he is in his house before he goes out, even if this is contrary to what the majority of scholars say, because the evidence for it is established. But the more caution opinion is for a person not to break his fast until he leaves the urban area of his city, as we mentioned. As for a person who will travel before Maghrib and knows that he will not leave the borders of the city until the Maghrib prayer has arrived, then it is not permissible for him to break his fast at home because night will overtake him while he is in the city and he has not traveled. He does not have the right to break the fast while he is in his city.
May Allaah be good to you. The questioner says: Is it better when establishing the prayer in the Prophet’s Mosque to complete the first rows and fill in the spaces? Or hasten to say the takbeer with the imam? It is better for you to advance until the rows are even and to fill the gap, even if you miss a rak’ah. The reward is for you, praise be to Allaah. Because what prevented you from saying takbeer with the imam is a legal barrier, which is advancing and filling the ranks. And whoever is prevented by the legal impediment from a deed, the reward for that deed is written for him. By the grace of Allaah, you will be rewarded. The first reward: You go forward and straighten the ranks, and the Prophet, may Allaah’s prayers and peace be upon him, said: Go forward and +!!!take care of me!!!+. And the second reward: the reward of catching the prayer from the beginning legislatively. But if there is a rak’ah left and you fear missing the congregation, then enter with the row and pray with them, I mean the nearest row that you catch until you catch up with the congregation. The interest of catching the congregation here is higher than the interest of completing the rows, and Allaah knows best.