May Allaah be good to you. The questioner says: Is it permissible to give a ransom of feeding a whole month to one poor person?
Yes, it is permissible, and this is not like expiation for the oath. Because the expiation for an oath is stipulated in feeding ten poor people. And what is most correct is that he must feed ten. And if he feeds one poor person, he manages to feed him every day, this will not suffice in expiation for an oath. As for the expiation of missed fasting, it is not, because what is required is the feeding of poor. Every day he feeds a poor person. If you feed 30 poor people for 30 days, it is valid. And if he feeds a poor person for 30 days, it is one poor person. He calls him every day and feeds him, that suffices him. Yes
May Allah reward you. The questioner says: Some women continue to be pregnant and breast-feed for many years. Is this reason relieved by the judiciary?
No. But it reduces performance. She does not have to do any expiation for the delay, which means that we have a woman who was pregnant during the month of Ramadan. We said that she doesn't have to fast. She delivered months later. And she became breast-feeding. She breastfeeds for two years. She doesn't have to fast. Ok. She will make it up three years later. Ramadan has come, and the second Ramadan has come. We say that she only has to make up for it if she fears for herself. As for the expiation for the delay, it is not obligatory. And she must make up along with feeding if she fears for her child. She does not have to do another expiation for the delay.
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: Is it permissible for a nursing mother to give the ransom for her fast to her parents’ house if they are poor?
Nothing's wrong in that, nothing's wrong in that. This is not zakat, yes
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: What is the ruling on swaying when reading the Qur’an and scholarly texts?
Swaying is of two types: natural swaying, in human nature. It is from person's nature to sway. Some people even if they speak sway. There is nothing wrong with that. The fact that a person does not intentionally sway if he is reading the Qur’an, he sways or moves back and forth while he is reading the Qur’an. There is nothing wrong with that. And one does not ask a person to make an effort (to stop swaying) while reading when he is told to hold yourself. This distracts him from reading. The second type is intentional swaying. A person completes the recitation with it, so that the doer thinks that this is like recitation and beautifying the voice. He is worshipping Allaah with this swaying. This swaying has its origins in Sufism. The remembrance of Sufism is based on movement. And if you saw them remembering, you would have wondered whether they remember or play? They jump, jump, jump, jump, sit, rise, and crawl. And he comes to the sheikh and loves on the hand of the sheikh and comes back jumping and jumping and jumping then he comes and loves on the leg of the sheikh. Many of them want Allaah's face, but they don't know the way. Glory be to Allaah, sometimes the matter does not need knowledge, it only needs intellect so that a person realizes that this is not right. For example, people come on the day of Arafah in the camp, and each one has a drum that is bigger than the other one's. And they go "tun" "tun" "tun" and people get up and dance and dance and dance. By Allaah all you need is intellect, it does not need the knowledge to know that this is not right. The Sufi remembrance is based on movement, and is mostly based on rhythm. And it is innovative remembrance. One who remembered Allaah the best was the Messenger of Allaah, may Allaah bless him and grant him peace. And after him, his companions, may Allaah be pleased with them. And they were not used to do this. This shaking as a way of worship and it has its origin in Sufism. It is not permissible because it is an innovation. So we must differentiate, brothers, between normal swaying which is that of human nature. Especially if he reads quickly. It is not disliked. And do not misunderstand him and have bad thought of him. And the other swaying which is intended swaying by way of which he draws closer to Allaah. And we have the principal: the origin in the believer if you see him that you always think well of him. If the matter of a believer revolves between bad and good, then consider him to be upon good, unless evidence indicates otherwise. For example, the matter revolves around a believer between being an disbeliever or not. Consider him not to be disbeliever as much as you can. Unless evidence indicates otherwise. Thus, if you see your brother reciting while he is swaying, interpret it in a good manner, and that this is part of his nature and don't consider him doing an innovation or drawing near to Allaah by means of it.
May Allaah reward you. The questioner says: Is it permissible for me to stipulate that those to whom I give zakat must spend it on paying off their debts?
No. You give them for a reason for which they deserve zakat, and do not prohibit them. Who gave you jurisdiction over them? So that you say to him: Take this zakat and buy oil and rice with it. You are not in charge of him. You must give him zakat. As long as he is sane then he spends from it.
May Allaah reward you. Questioner says in the sequel to the question: Is it permissible, if I have lent them money, to omit it from the zakat?
No. Zakat, brothers, must be paid and taken. It is taken from the rich and returned to the poor. Dropping the debt is not taking nor returning. So, brothers, in other words, zakat is an action, and forgiving the debt is leaving off. Forgiving debt is not zakat. On the other hand, by this you are in fact protecting your money in the name of zakat, instead of paying zakat to those who deserve it, you are preserving your rights. This is not valid in zakat, yes.
May Allaah protect you, the questioner says: We hope that you will explain to us how the Salaf taught their children to fast.
They used to say that if a boy is able to fast after he has reached the age of discernment, then there must be two things, brothers: he must reach the age of discernment and be able to fast. Because he may reach nine years of age and he cannot fast. It is necessary to do both. As for what before that, then fasting should be partial. Fast until the forenoon or so, out of love for fasting only. But if he reaches the age of discernment and is able to fast, then he fasts. It is likely that this is the obligation on the parents to command child to fast. Although fasting is not obligatory for the child. The predecessors used to fast themselves and give the children toys to play with so that they would be preoccupied from food and drink. This is how the righteous predecessors used to do, and there is no objection to rewarding them. Fast till noon, Allaah willing, Allaah willing. You have a week to fast until noon. Fast today until the afternoon. After a few days, he fasts till Magrib until he gets used to it. And there is nothing wrong with the reward, but do not associate it with worship, rather make it an effect of worship. Do not teach your child insincerity from a young age. Do not teach your son that he worships Allaah for the sake of the worldly gain. Don't tell him if you pray, I will give you a riyal because he will pray for a riyal. So you teach him not to be sincere. But if he prays, give him a riyal and say, “You have done what pleases Allaah.” Then Allaah guided me to give you a riyal. You prayed and this pleases Allaah, for Allaah Almighty has guided me to give you a riyal. I mean, this is the effect of his prayer. Cultivate him upon this. Also in fasting, it is okay to give them a reward. Of course, play is one thing, and the reward is another. But reward make it the effect of action, not a reason for action. Raise him on this, raise him on sincerity, and that worship is the key to happiness. If he fasts, for example, he will come to him at night with a toy he loves. So see, Allaah willing, because you fasted, Allaah Almighty is pleased with those who fasts, and He guided me to go and buy you the toy. Your prayer brought you this. So you instill in him that his happiness and goodness in this world because of his worship. But his worship is not because of the world. It is only for Allaah, and this is accurate approach in raising children. Many people neglect it.